## Version [0.1.3] - March 13, 2020
* :warning: **Depending on your microscope configuration, this release breaks backward compatibility with previous configuration files. If necessary, update your configuration file using `demo_config.py` as an example.**
* :warning: **There are new startup parameters in the config file - make sure to update your config files accordingly**. For example, `average_frame_rate` has been added.
* :warning: **This release removes unnecessary configuration files from the public repository - make sure to back up your mesoSPIM & ETL configuration files beforehand. In addition, old example acquisition tables (in `mesoSPIM-control\mesoSPIM\acquisitions\`) are removed as well.** 
* :gem: **New: Support for more cameras**: **Photometrics** cameras are now supported if `PyVCAM` and the PVCAM-SDK are installed. Only the Iris 15 has been tested so far. In addition, the **Hamamatsu Orca Fusion** is now supported.
* :gem: **New: Multicolor tiling wizard**: The Tiling wizard can now support up to 3 color channels with different ETL parameters and focus tracking settings.
* :gem: **New: Full demo mode - addresses #16**: `mesoSPIM-control` can now be run without any microscope hardware by using the `demo_config.py` configuration file. 
* :gem: **New: Snap function** -- Single pictures can now be taken by clicking the snap button. The filename is autogenerated from the current time. Files are saved as `.tif` which requires `tifffile` as an additional library.
* :gem: **New: Acquisition time prediction** -- `mesoSPIM-control` now measures the average framerate every 100 frames to predict the acquisition time. To have a correct initial estimate 
in the `Acquisition Manager`, please update the `average_frame_rate` with the measured values 
from your microscope (are now logged in the metadata files after an acquisition).
* :gem: **New: Focus tracking** -- Different start and end focus positions can now be specified in the Acquisition Manager. When moving the sample to acquire the stack, the microscope changes focus according to a linear interpolation between these values. At z_start, the microscope moves the detection path 
to f_start and at z_end, the detection path focus is at z_end. This allows imaging a liquid-filled sample cuvette without an immersion cuvette. The `Mark current focus` button changes both values at once. 
* :gem: **New: Improved acquisition previews** -- An additional checkbox allows to switch off Z axis movements when previewing acquisitions. This way, the field-of-view does not move outside of the sample which is especially helpful when updating ETL value for individual tiles/stacks in large acquisition tables. :warning: When previewing an acquistion requires a rotation, z movements still occur for safety reasons. 
* :gem: **New: Image Processing Wizard**: `mesoSPIM-control` now has an Image Processing Wizard (accessible via a button in the `Acquisition Manager`). Currently, this allows maximum projections to be generated automatically after acquisitions.  
* :sparkles: **Improvement:** `Acquisition Manager`: Naming of buttons has been improved, in addition, **tooltips** have been added to improve usability. 
* :sparkles: **Improvement:** Removed unnecessary microscope and ETL configuration files cluttering the repository. Changed `.gitignore` correspondingly - future changes to configuration files. This addresses issue #16.
* :sparkles: **Improvement:** The software now provides more verbose warnings when acquisitions cannot be started due to missing folders, duplicated filenames and already existing files.
* :sparkles: **Improvement:** Better warnings if no row is selected while clicking Mark buttons.
* :sparkles: **New:** Added a `CHANGELOG.md` file
* :bug: **Bugfix:** Manually entering a value in a field in the Acquisition Manager table would change values in other rows as well if the row had been copied before.
* :bug: **Bugfix:** Mark buttons and dropdown menus in the Acquisition Manager table slowed down the GUI when a lot of rows (>25) were present. As a fix, only the selected row shows the menu.
* :bug: **Bugfix #26:** Fixed: First row is selected by mark buttons by default if only a single row exists in the Acquisition Manager Table
* :bug: **Bugfix #27:** Fixed: Entering text into boxes is a bit buggy
* :bug: **Bugfix #30:** Fixed: Zooming drop down menu often fails to update after a zoom
* :bug: **Bugfix #31:** Fixed: `demo_config.py` now contains subsampling settings
* :bug: **Bugfix #34:** Fixed: Last frame in a stack is blank due to an off-by-one error
* :bug: **Bugfix #35:** Fixed: Software crashes when one folder (to save data in) in the acquisition list does not exist

---

## Version [0.1.2] - August 19th, 2019
* **New:** Logging is now supported. Logfiles go in the `log` folder. 
* **New:** Improved support for a specific mesoSPIM configuration using sample & focusing stages by Steinmayer Mechantronik and in combination with PI stages for sample rotation and z-movement.
* **Fix:** Reduced the output to the command line
* **Fix:** To decrease laggyness of the GUI in live mode and during acquisitions, display subsampling is now available. This way, less image data has to be rendered by the GUI. 
* **Fix:** Fixed a variety of multithreading bugs.
* **Fix:** Galvo amplitude and frequency in the startup part of the configuration file are now used to set startup parameters properly